index.md, before:

# **Digital Service Standard Team monthly update: July 2017**

**Who we are and what we do**

The Digital Service Standard Team are in the Product Design Centre of Excellence. We support teams to meet the [digital service standard](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard), and co-ordinate assurance to show our teams are meeting the standard. We work with professional communities, delivery portfolios, governance colleagues, GDS and others. 
Get in touch if you have feedback on the digital service standard, want to become an assessor, or want to join our team – all things we’re currently working on!

## What we did in July

### Health checks and assessments 
- Common Data Platform end of discovery health check 
- HMPO Digital Application Processing alpha health check
- Returns and Movement Planner private beta health check
- Firearms licensing beta assessment 
- Check your right to work in the UK – this was a practice assessment, before the team had their GDS alpha assessment

### Training and capability
- We delivered digital service standard assessor training jointly with GDS. We have now welcomed seven new assessors to the community!

### Iterations and general updates
- We have set out what our team will focus on for the next couple of months, as two of our team (of three) will be leaving by the end of September
- We have updated the data we have, such as ensuring our list of assessors is up-to-date
- We have also started to write up how we want our processes to work, to help handover to new team members
- We are also iterating these processes – for example, we have developed a new online form. This will enable teams to book their assessments, and submit the pre-brief information, more easily. We are just working through some technical points before we can publish the link 
- We are continuing to try ‘time-boxing’ in assessments and health checks, based on feedback, to ensure we can cover the key areas of the standard 
- We are also working with the wider Centre of Excellence on reviewing the governance process. We will publish more on this, as we want to work in the open with colleagues. This includes linking up with other governance, both in the HO and beyond, such as the new Cabinet Office spend controls process 

## What we are going to do in August
- We are continuing the work with the wider Centres of Excellence on governance, linking up with colleagues
- We have two alpha assessments planned – both internal. These are for the Incoming Proving Service API, and Reporting Offender Management
- We will be training more assessors. We are also planning training for September, so let us know if you would like to become an assessor 
- We will be doing more work on our principles, and the processes – look out for this soon 
- We are recruiting for a Digital Service Standard Manager. The expression of interest is open until 18 August – please get in touch if you are interested 
- We will also be preparing to feed in to the GDS review of the digital service standard. We will be coming out with more information, but please contact us if you’d like to be involved 

This is the first update we’ve circulated in this format. We will iterate it. Let us know if you have any feedback.

Commit message:

Text updated to give an update for August

index.md, after:

# **Digital Service Standard Team monthly update: August 2017**

**Who we are and what we do**

The Digital Service Standard Team are in the Product Design Centre of Excellence. We support teams to meet the [digital service standard](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard), and co-ordinate assurance to show our teams are meeting the standard. We work with professional communities, delivery portfolios, governance colleagues, GDS and others. 

Get in touch if you have feedback on the digital service standard, want to know more about the process – or if you are a performance analyst and not already in touch with colleagues

## What we did in August

### Health checks and assessments 
- An internal alpha assessment on Proving Things
- An internal alpha assessment on Reporting Offender Management 

### Training and capability
- Our Digital Service Standard Manager, Alex, has now moved to GDS. She will be missed, and we wish her all the best in her new role
- We delivered the next iteration of our digital service standard assessor training in August, again jointly with GDS. We have welcomed 7 new assessors to the community. Everyone who filled in the feedback form would recommend the training, so get in touch if you want to join them

### Iterations and general updates
- We are continuing to work with the wider Centre of Excellence on reviewing the governance process. This includes linking up with other governance, both in the HO and beyond, such as the new Cabinet Office spend controls process

## What we are going to do in September 
- We have assessments and health checks planned for a number of teams. We are booking in sessions as far ahead as November, so please let us know early if you want an assessment or health check
- We are also focussing on ensuring the data we capture about assessments and assessors is accurate. We will include some figures in next month’s report, when we have completed this exercise
- We will have a performance analyst, Arslan, spending half of his time with us to work for the Centre of Excellence. If you have a performance analyst in your team who is not already in touch with Arslan, please get in touch to help us build up the Home Office community
- Arslan is also holding a session with product managers in September on performance analytics 
- We will be working on the next phase of the governance work. 

We are still working on the format of this update, and will iterate it. Let us know if you have any feedback.
